Delhi is the capital of India and the second most populated city in the country. The city is spread over an area of 1,484 sq. km. The city is the largest commercial center in the northern part of India. Delhi lies at an altitude between 700 and 1000 feet (213 and 305 m) and is situated on the Yamuna River. It is bordered on the east by Uttar Pradesh and by Haryana on the north, west and south. 

 	Quick Facts	 
Chief Minister	Arvind Kejriwal
Governor	Anil Baijal
Size	1484 sq km
population (Census 2011)	16,787,941
population (UN report 2014)	25 million
Rivers	Yamuna
Languages	Hindi, English, Punjabi, and Urdu
State Bird	Sparrow
STD Code	011
Time Zone	IST (UTC+5:30)
Neighbouring States	Haryana and Uttar Pradesh
No. of District	11
History of Delhi

Delhi has a rich historical background and has been home to many ancient empires such as the Mauryan Empire, Mughal Empire, and renowned dynasties like the Tomara dynasty, Slave dynasty, Tughluq dynasty, Khilji dynasty, and so on. It is believed that Delhi was Indraprastha, the capital of the pandavas, in the Mahabharata epic. Delhi was also an important place for Sufism. After India gained independence on August 15, 1947, Delhi was officially declared as the capital of India.  More Details... 

Geographical Area and Location of Delhi

Delhi is situated in North India at 28.61°N 77.23°E. The River Yamuna is the only major river flowing through the city. The Delhi ridge, which reaches a height of 1043 ft, originates from the Aravalli Range in the South and surrounds the West, Northeast and Northwest parts of the city. Delhi lies in India's seismic zone-IV, which makes it vulnerable to earthquakes.   More Details...

Demographics

According to the census of 2011, the population of Delhi is 16,787,941 and the number of females per 1000 males is 867. The literacy rate of Delhi is 87.1%. In terms of area, Delhi is the largest metropolis and holds the second position according to the population.

Government and Administration in Delhi

Delhi is officially known as the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCT). It has always been an important cultural, commercial, and political hub of the country. Currently, Delhi has 11 districts. Delhi is divided into the New Delhi Municipal Committee (NDMC), the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB). The capital has four important satellite cities namely, Gurgaon, Noida, Ghaziabad, and Faridabad. Delhi has seven Lok Sabha constituencies and 70 assembly constituencies. The Rashtrapati Bhavan, the Parliament of India and the Supreme Court of India are situated in Delhi. 

In the early nineties, Delhi had only one district. In January 1997, Delhi was divided into nine districts. In September 2012, two more districts were created bringing the total number to 11. The districts of Delhi and their headquarters (in brackets) are - Central Delhi (Daryaganj), North Delhi (Narela), South Delhi (Saket), East Delhi (Preet Vihar), North East Delhi (Seelampur), South West Delhi (Dwarka), New Delhi (Connaught Place), North West Delhi (Kanjhawala), West Delhi (Rajouri Garden), South East Delhi (Defence Colony) and Shahdara (Shadhara).  More Details...

Ads by ZINC


Transportation

Delhi has a strong transportation network. Indira Gandhi International Airport, which is situated to the southwest of Delhi, is the main airport and is maintained by the GMR Group. It is one of the busiest airports in South Asia. Delhi is the headquarters of the Northern Railway. There are five main railway stations in Delhi; New Delhi Railway Station, Old Delhi Railway Station, Nizamuddin railway Station, Anand Vihar railway terminal and Sarai Rohilla railway station. There is also a suburban railway system in the city. The National Highways that pass through Delhi are the National Highway Number 1, 2, 8, 10, and 24. The state-owned Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) is the main bus service provider and operates the world's largest fleet of CNG-fuelled buses. Apart from this, taxis, radio cabs, auto rickshaws, and cycle rickshaws (in some localities) are easily available in Delhi. The Delhi Metro rapid transit system, built and operated by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), is another means of transportation in Delhi. It serves many parts of Delhi and the neighboring NCR cities like Gurgaon, Noida, and Ghaziabad.

Culture

Delhi has a rich cultural background. It consists of large number of significant monuments, heritage buildings, and other famous architectural buildings like the Red Fort, Jama Masjid, India Gate, Qutub Minar, Jantar Mantar, Laxminarayan Temple, and Akshardham to name a few. Major events such as Republic Day and festivals of all religions are celebrated in Delhi with great zeal and excitement. In Delhi, one can enjoy all types of Indian and international cuisines and delicacies besides the typical, mouth-watering local fast-food items like Dahi Bhalla and Papri Chaat. Delhi is a shopping hub. From jewelry and saris to all sorts of electrical gadgets, Delhi has it all.   More Details...

Education in Delhi

Delhi is home to many prestigious schools colleges and universities. The central universities located in Delhi are University of Delhi, Jamia Millia Islamia, and Jawaharlal Nehru University. Distance education is provided by the Indira Gandhi National Open University. The state universities are Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi Technological University, National Law University, Delhi, Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology, and Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. Places to Visit

